The Apple iPhone 13 mini is the most compact flagship smartphone money can buy. It's also easy enough to outright recommend to anyone looking for this particular type of device. It is astonishingly rare to find such a pocket-friendly smartphone, let alone one of flagship caliber.
Apple iPhone 13 mini review
Apple launched the first iPhone mini a year ago, and while it did not turn out to be the massive success some hoped for it to be, it was still a popular purchase among the fans of compact phones, Android and iOS alike. But because of the lackluster sales, the rumor has it the iPhone 13 mini will be the last of its kind before it is merged with the iPhone SE in a year or two.
Apple iPhone 13 mini review
The iPhone 13 mini brings few updates over the iPhone 12 mini - an improved chipset, a better main camera with new sensor and stabilization, about 10% battery capacity increase, and a couple of software features. And a smaller screen notch, of course! But we imagine few if any iPhone 12 mini users will be upgrading to the iPhone 13 mini.
But as a standalone smartphone, the iPhone 13 mini seems like a great offer for a number of reasons - it is the cheapest current flagship iPhone with unmatched compact and lightweight design. It employs the most durable design on the market so far, runs on the most powerful Apple A15 chip with 5G, has excellent cameras, there are loud stereo speakers and a great 5.4" OLED screen with Dolby Vision support.
For a device of this size, the Apple iPhone 13 mini is jam-packed with features. We can't but appreciate that how Apple made the mini possible without cutting any corners - it is basically a shrunk version of the regular iPhone 13. It even offers Face ID and MagSafe wireless charging. And despite the new improvements, Apple managed to increase the battery capacity, too.
The iPhone 13 mini, just like the iPhone 13, has a regular 60Hz OLED, though that's hardly surprising. The ProMotion screen is reserved for the iPhone ProModels. And that's probably the only missing feature worth a mention before we get this review started.
The iPhone 13 mini looks a lot like the iPhone 12 mini and is equal in size - Apple used the same design though a few of the internal technical advancements have left a mark on the exterior, too.
For starters, the iPhone 13 mini has a smaller screen notch - one of the most important changes Apple has delivered this year. It's not a groundbreaking reduction, but it is the first step towards its retirement.
The other notable change is on the back - the dual-camera now uses diagonal alignment as opposed to the vertical one on the iPhone 12 mini. This new arrangement is probably a result of the primary camera improvements - a larger sensor with new sensor-shift stabilization.
Finally, the larger battery and the new hardware are responsible for 6 extra grams and 0.4mm extra thickness over the iPhone 12 mini. That's insignificant, obviously, but old protection cases may not fit properly on the new iPhone 13 mini. That, of course, is all but surprising.
Apple iPhone 13 mini reviewThe Pros are in the middle
The Apple iPhone 13 mini is obviously an incredibly small and lightweight smartphone - it's 131mm tall, 64mm wide and weighs 141 grams. Yet, it is also one of the most durable devices on the market thanks to its Ceramic Shield front, aluminum frame, Corning-made rear panel, and sapphire crystal lens covers. Apple likes to come up with fancy names, but various drop tests have already proven this new design indeed lives up to the hype.
On top of this extra durable design, the iPhone 13 mini is also IP68-rated for dust and water resistance. Apple went above and beyond the official IP requirements and secured the iPhone 13 mini against water - it can go swim in 6m deep water for 30 minutes and survive this adventure.
The 5.4" Super Retina XDR screen occupies most of the front, and it packs an incredibly sharp OLED panel with high brightness, HDR10 and Dolby Vision support. The bezels are as thin as on the iPhone 12 mini, but the notch is now narrower - that's the first size reduction since the iPhone X. The cutout still contains the Face ID sensors, the 12MP selfie camera and one of the stereo speakers that also acts as an earpiece.
The screen is protected by a flat piece of Ceramic Shield glass made in collaboration with Corning. The back panel is also flat and covered by a Corning-made glass though not a Ceramic Shield (probably a version of Gorilla Glass Victus). Both glass sheets are covered with extra oleophobic layers, which make smudges not that sticky and easier to clean.
Speaking about the back, you can easily notice the new camera arrangement. The back glass is all glossy, while the camera square is matte. The Pro models have it the other way around.
The whole camera setup is jutting out of the back, and then the two camera rings are jutting out once more. This makes the mini wobble a lot, but that's unavoidable for now.
The lenses are protected by sapphire crystal glass, which is dense and durable, and that's why they can easily scratch other surfaces like regular glass. Yes, we are warning you, again, not to stack the iPhone 13 mini over other phones.	
The iPhone 13 mini uses an aluminum frame with brushed paint, and it's nicely grippy. Fingerprints do stick, but they aren't as visible.