Different types of restorative imaging systems such as Computed Tomography (CT), Single- Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT), and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) are utilized to give important data about nature, dimension, vicinity and metabolism of cere- brum tumor aiding determination. These modalities are utilized in combination to give the most elevated data about the cerebrum tumor. MRI is a non-intrusive system that uses radio recurrence signals to create the internal images under the influence of an extremely amazing attractive field. Distinctive MRI modalities produce various kinds of tissue contrast images, subsequently giving important auxiliary data and empowering analysis and segmentation of tumor along with their subregions. Cerebrum tumor segmentation from MRI is a criti- cal errand which includes different covering pathology, medical resonance materal science, radiologist’s discernment, and image analysis dependent on intensity and shape. There are numerous difficulties related to tumor fragmentation. The tumor might be of any dimension, may have an assortment of shapes, and may emerge at any location. The manual segmen- tation is a troublesome and tedious task, which makes an attractive computerized cerebrum tumor segmentation technique. The challenges related with programmed cerebrum tumor segmentation have offered to various methodologies.
The identification of the brain tumor from the MRI image is the challenging task due  to trademark requirements. Feature extraction and determination are the significant strides for brain tumor location. There are various types of features such as GLCM, statistical, texture, region based, wavelet features, and so forth [1]. Also, there are numerous methods are available to extract the required attributes from the image. Using huge number of features for classification is an extraordinary deterrent [2]. Therefore, the significant features must be chosen. It is the process of increasing the classification accuracy and also reducing the
computational intricacy. There are numerous deep learning and optimization algorithm which	 includes Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis [3], K-Nearest Neighbor [4] Decision Tree,
Multilayer Perceptron [5], and Support Vector Machine (SVM) [6] have been utilized for selecting features from the image [7]. It was found that, Artificial Neural Network (ANN) classification methods give an powerful approach for multi-category classification problem [8]. Similarly, even though number of segmentation methods has been used for brain tumor segmentation, still the accurate segmentation technique has not found out.
The fundamental target of this paper is to develop an efficient cerebrum tumor segmenta- tion approach for MRI imageries using ANN classifier and Fuzzy-K Means (FKM) clustering technique. The accuracy of cerebrum tumor diagnosis has been exaggerated by the segmen- tation process. Recently, Deep Learning based methods have been widely used in Medical Image Segmentation. Since, the medical images have high correlation among the neigh- borhood pixels, it must be accounted while characterizing the segmentation method. The FKM in its original state does not take this into consideration. Therefore, the FKM method has been combined with ANN classifier. The MRI images are affected by multiplicative type of speckle noise. Wiener filter has been utilized for speckle noise reduction. After that, GLCM attributes are extricated from every image. In order to decrease the complexity and to increase the ANN classifier accuracy, significant attributes are selected by using Crow Search Optimization Algorithm (CSOA). Then, the usual and unusual images are classified using ANN classifier. After the classification process, Fuzzy K-means clustering technique has been utilized for cerebrum tumor segmentation.
Remaining part of this paper is arranged in the following manner. Section 2 presents about a summary of related works, Sect. 3 gives the detailed description about the proposed
